my initial impressions of the new pixel9
devices was not great like based off of
that launch event I thought that the
hardware had very minimal updates and
then the AI software that they were
headlining with just seemed not
particularly impressive so I was like
maybe they're not even send me review
units this year but they showed up uh
and these phones are way better than I
thought they would be but for reasons
that I just did not expect so let's
start off with the hardware so the new
shape it's like a very flat FL back very
flat front and I like it I thought I
wouldn't like enjoy the new shape and
Camera hump design as much but after
just a week of using it I totally dig
this new look uh the other thing the
screens so brighter screens and
perfectly flat screens with even bezels
that go around the whole device I
wouldn't say that the increased
brightness this year is that noticeable
in indoor environments but when you're
outdoors and the sun's just going full
blast you do notice the brighter screen
on the pixel nine devices the new
fingerprint sensors are ultrasonic so
they don't shine light in the dark to
unlock but it doesn't seem any faster
than the previous generation it does
seem a little bit more reliable
especially if your fingers are wet but
speed it's pretty much the same the
haptics and the speakers are pretty much
the same from this generation in the
last but the chip is where I noticed the
first kind of surprising difference so
based off of Just performance benchmarks
the new chip is barely faster uh and it
also in classic pixel fashion does
Throttle Down pretty quickly when you're
playing heavy games games at maximum
Graphics but the battery life was very
impressive on both the devices
particularly though on the pixel9 pro XL
this is a very longlasting device this
year all right I want to move this
conversation over to the more
interesting and more important
conversation of software and right now
the big thing with phone software is AI
the use and integration of AI to improve
the software experience or at least
that's what the companies would try uh
to have us believe okay when it comes to
the pixel devices I would attribute the
software or the AI experience into kind
of two pillars first is the system
software and how AI affects that
particularly with Google Gemini and then
the second thing is camera software and
how Google has all these AI tools to
improve that experience we're going to
talk about both let's start off with the
first thing the system software so you
would expect like if you're going to
sell a phone if you're going to sell a
brand new pixel 9 or pixel9 Pro phone
you would expect the Gemini experience
to be special like if they're going to
pitch that like if you look all the
press material and all the kind of
launch conversation it was about Gemini
this Gemini that and so I just assumed
that there would be so many exclusive
features that lean on Gemini on this
phone and there aren't there are three
uh so the first one I'll demo real I'm
just going to show you all these things
so the first one is the ability to
summarize a YouTube video using Gemini
so let's say I'm watching blond haired
lonus right now and instead of uh
instead of watching a
full 23 minute video let's say I want to
just get a brief summary of it I would
launch
Gemini and I would tap this button here
and I'd say hey tell me a brief summary
actually it's not even
listening giv me a brief summary of this
video keep it to like 4 four or five
sentences and it'll take a minute not a
minute like 10 seconds and hopefully
give me a summary now this video is uh
it can dictate it to you but there's a
there's a summary and this is a very
cool feature I feel like there's a lot
of kind of long form content that people
kind of just want to get a just get the
the koh's notes of it right I just want
the the quick dirty version of it and
this is a very powerful tool that's
built right into the pixel phones that I
think is exclusive to the pixel 9
devices right now that that's neat
that's the first one that's the first
kind of pixel9 exclusive the second
thing that the pixel 99's do is they
have the pixel studio so this is an AI
image generation app or tool and this is
really good in the sense
that I've played with so many of these
and this is actually what I think to be
the easiest one to use as well as
reasonably powerful but very fast like
strangely fast so let's say I wanted
to okay let's go
for a panda that's climbing a tree that
has a bunch of rainbow axotal on that
tree and make this tree a coniferous
tree not a deciduous
one and it's just
seconds there it is is a coniferous tree
with a panda climbing it and there's
rainbow colored axelos over it now you
can generate more of
them it's fairly quick and this is all
real time I'm not like speeding it up or
anything and the thing that I found most
interesting about this app is that it's
remarkably easy to use my 5-year-old
daughter had this for like hours and
just generating all these pictures and
giggling and laughing and it's neat from
the perspective of like novelty because
if I'm being honest like and these are
cool right these are like these are well
drawn but it's a
novel I don't want to use the word
gimmick because it's that's got like a
very negative connotation to it but the
novelty of this whole thing wears off
quickly I didn't this Bulbasaur this
guy's awesome look at this right a
Bulbasaur this is from my kid Bulbasaur
running across the water and he's being
attacked or chased by a bunch of small
bees perfect and you can get more of
them so right now I think there's like
it's somehow producing copyright
material but who cares it works what it
can't do right now is generate uh humans
like so if I wanted to create a human
like U I don't know draw me a person
doing this it won't because that's not
uh it's not part of the usage experience
right now maybe it comes in the future
but this being the second kind of
exclusive feature on the pixel 9 devices
is neat but the thing you have to keep
in mind is that it's such a novel toy
and the thing that I kind of want to
draw or kind of keep in your mind is
that if you're looking at this feature
and you're like wow that's cool I could
use that that would be fun absolutely
it's fun but there's a ton of apps out
there that do something very similar to
this maybe not as simple to use uh and I
don't think it should be a thing that
makes you like go in on this device the
other thing is that I wouldn't be
surprised if this whole experience
becomes slower as more and more people
use it like right now very few people
have pixel 99's and very few people are
using pixel studio so maybe that servers
have like a ton of bandwidth and a ton
of processing capability to pump these
things out super quick it it seems
strangely fast this just a thought uh
but that's that's it that's pixel Studio
lot of
fun but how much utility does it have
really uh now the third thing that is an
exclusive to the pixel9 devices when it
comes to kind of system software is
screenshots now this was demoed during
the launch event and it's got utility
but there are a couple things that you
should be aware of so first you know
what is a screenshots app so basically
it allows you to search through your
potentially massive collection of
screenshots for a specific or particular
thing that you're looking for so as you
take screenshots the app will process
those screenshots and tag them with
identifier so you'll be able to search
through them or for them within the app
now it does take a bit of time so if you
just took a screenshot and you know 2
seconds later trying to search it it
doesn't show up it does need some
processing time and you can kind of
force it to process certain images but
it does have utility one thing I did
notice uh well you know what I'll just
demo it real quickly so uh this is the
screenshots
app can you show me some screenshots I
took of SB Dunks from
Nike and these are some of the shoes
that I kind of was interested in over
the past little bit and then uh yeah you
can just find stuff and so another one
you could search is like just a
demo can you show me some white watches
that I was looking
at uh now sometimes you'll get kind of
hallucinations like this is clearly not
a white watch but because the white
background maybe it tagged it with that
color um but yeah now there's a couple
things to note here first there will be
times when you take a screenshot that
has langu anguage in that screenshot
that is not supported by this app right
now so this one is an example of this so
this is a screenshot I took from just a
Google Search and it's a pair of shoes I
like the color uh there's English at the
bottom here I'll zoom in real quick you
know you can see the Nike Dunk uh it's
the April color wave that I think looks
really nice but because of the Japanese
language on here it decided that this
was an image that it couldn't process so
once you take the shot it kind of shows
you right at the bottom that it couldn't
process the screenshot due to an
unsupported language despite the fact
that there's English in that screenshot
so it's just a little minor thing to
keep in mind at least right now I'm sure
over time that'll improve but the second
thing and I think this is a more
egregious problem with this whole
screenshots app is that you need to be
within the app itself to do the
searching like if you're out on your
home screen and you launch the regular
Gemini app
can you show me some screenshots that I
took of those Nike SB
Dunks it won't work it rather show you
like Google image screenshots sorry I
can't help with that you can take a
screenshot directly using your device or
it'll give you that message and you it
just basically tells you you have to be
within the screenshots app itself in
order to search for it which is it makes
sense but it's not particularly
convenient uh but those are the three
kind of exclusive features that I've
found at least on the pixel 9 devices so
the first being YouTube summarization
second being the
pixel um pixel studio and then the third
thing being the screenshots app now
there is another kind of like it's not
an exclusive but there is a value added
feature that comes with the pixel 9
devices sorry the pixel 9 Pro devices so
pixel9 pro pixel9 pro XL and then the
fold so those three devices get a
one-year subscription to Gemini Advanced
now it's a $20 a month normally so a
one-year subscription would be worth 240
bucks but that kind of value ad is I
mean the question is what does Gemini
Advanced even do so there's a there's a
few things let's let's break it down to
three kind of big things the first one
is you get two tbytes of cloud storage
from Google so you can upload all your
photos and videos and large files to
Google's Cloud the second thing you get
is the ability for Google's Gemini to
ingest and analyze or process large
amount of like Text data so let's say
you have a ton of documents and you want
you know Google Gemini to summarize all
this stuff or analyze it for whatever
reason you can upload massive amounts to
it you got a lot of tokens to do it
that's one of the benefits of uh Gemini
advance but the third and most
interesting thing about Gemini Advance
is access to Gemini live and Gemini live
is Google's most advanced like chatbot
that's all it really is just the a chat
bot like chat gbt but but theirs is in
at least in Google's mind Gemini live is
the most advanced version of what they
have and the thing that's most
interesting about it is that you can
interrupt it so I'll just demo it real
quickly so this is the regular Gemini
app but because I got that onee
subscription it's now Gemini Advanced
and I launch the live app and now we're
in live and it's listening to me are you
listening so I'm not quite sure what you
mean by alive and listening maybe you
could rephrase that let's start over
because I was midp
speech I am looking for a anniversary
gift for my wife this is going to be our
12th anniversary so looking for some
suggestions that's a great question the
12th anniversary is known as the silk or
linen
anniversary Trad I lied it's not the
12th anniversary it's actually our 13th
anniversary so what what is the 13th
anniversary the traditional gift for a
13th anniversary is lace it's supposed
to be delicate and so sorry I'm just
getting interrup to you real quick I get
it lace uh wife isn't really into let's
say I'm looking for uh some kind of
Toronto based itinerary so we could kind
of do things together on our anniversary
with our two kids I have a a 10 year-old
boy and a 5-year-old daughter we would
like to do thing something as a whole
family in the Toronto area where we
could kind of like keep the itinerary
relatively close and walking distance to
each other could you kind of plan
something for
us I can definitely help you with that
Toronto has a ton of great
family-friendly spots especially if you
want to stay close together so for your
anniversary you could start the day off
with a trip to the Toronto Zoo they've
got a brand so it's a very natural
speech
experience uh and then you get the
transcript when you're done with it I
don't think it's particularly unique
like I think the chat GPT experience is
similar to this uh obviously this does
have access to like Google Maps and you
can do a little bit more with it because
of the integration with all of Google
stuff but that I mean those three things
are really the the Crux of Gemini
Advance with Gemini live being the star
of the show the overall problem that
sticks out to me though is that the user
needs to decide which AI assist they're
going to use and then launch the
appropriate one all three of these
things are three separate AI experiences
that need their own app and or launcher
and or like activation process to
activate and then they don't interact
with each other as in the the experience
and the conversation that I have in
screenshots looking for a particular
screenshot does
not you know it's all it's three
different experiences that are very
powerful but just have very little like
Synergy it's so Google it's very on
brand for them but I find the experience
just not great now the second pillar of
AI when it comes to pixels phones is
their camera software and the AI tools
that Google has or Google has put into
their camera software has always been
really cool but this year it's extra
special and I didn't realize this based
off their launch announcement so the
main one that they demoed was their add
me in feature and if you'll remember
it's the AI feature that allows you to
take a picture and then hand off the
camera to a second person and then now
you can go in for that group shot the
camera Tech works well but when I was
asking my family and friends to try it
there's definitely a learning curve to
it it's not something that's super easy
to use and also it can be kind of
bothersome to get people to do a second
photo so I don't know if I'd use it very
often but it is neat in the sense of how
it works or how well it works some other
interesting AI features are the two new
video boost features so the first one is
the new super res Zoom it's an
incredibly powerful 20x Zoom so the way
you do it is you just capture some video
with the video boost enabled and you
just punch into that 20x and then that
file gets sent out to the Google servers
it gets processed and it gets sent back
a little while later when you look at
how punched in that is and how far away
those things are it's like it's quite
impressive you also get access to 8K
video now again it's video that is sent
to the Google servers upscaled and then
sent back and those files are huge huge
I think like 30 seconds of footage was
almost a gig uh there's also the new
magic editor that allows you to kind of
remove objects and replace it with your
own creation it is a very bizarre
approach to photography I feel like
there's some use for it I personally
don't think I would ever use it but it's
available the other thing that the magic
editor can do is reframe pictures so you
may have a shot that didn't look
particularly great like this is a good
example if you run the autof frame on it
it will recompose the shot with a
generative fill so now added some extra
Street and buildings and this new shot
the composition of it is way better than
the original photo but if you zoom in
you can see that there's just a whole
bunch of AI goop instead of actual real
imagery but it is kind of neat if you
have the right shot for it and the last
AI tool I want to talk about is the zoom
enhancement this was something that was
announced a long time ago and it's
finally here in beta and it allows you
to take a regular photo Zoom in and then
use AI to generate detail and so this
shot here is a pretty hard one the car
in this shot is really small and there's
not a lot of pixels or details to work
with when it's zoomed in like this but
it's using AI to generate extra pixels
to give it higher resolution and it's
just taking what it its best guess is as
to what those rims might look like and
it's okay the zoom enhanced image does
have more pixels and resolution but it's
not exactly accurate I found that the
zoom enhancement feature kind of works
best with buildings like simple
buildings where you can just have these
repeated patterns or kind of textures
that the AI can generate easily so
that's some of the stuff that Google has
put into the camera software but in
terms of the camera Hardware itself
there's a few things I want to talk
about the first is the zoom the
telephoto on the pixel 9 Pro is way
better this year than the previous
generation I'm not sure if this is from
the new sensor or some software trick
but it's very good video stabilization
though still isn't great the up and down
movement is not bad but the moment you
move left and right and there's any kind
of like panned movement there's just
weird artifacting within the videos
there just a classic pixel video quality
I'm surprised that in 2024 this is still
the case I obviously there's this is not
an easy thing for them to solve but it
just so many other brands have solved
this issue at this point uh the
front-facing camera so it's now a way
higher resolution sensor it's now 42
megapixels instead of the 11 megapixel
of the previous generation in terms of
image quality though it's it's not a big
jump like if you just kind of stare at
them at regular distances without
zooming in they actually look quite
similar the new one though is wider so
if you want to do like kind of selfies
with a bigger group the pixel 9 devices
have a wider sensor now in terms of
pricing this year's devices are $100
more than the previous generation and
those devices were $100 more expensive
than the year before that so it's been
two years of price bumps now when it
comes to Google's pixel devices because
they go on sale so aggressively it's
kind of hard hard to to kind of take the
pricing at face value the MSRP is so
elevated that it's these aren't real
prices what you see right now because
it's going to be like two2 three $400
cheaper typically like wait a couple
months and it'll be there but I would
say that the AI features like the kind
of the system software features like the
Gemini and stuff I don't feel like it's
worth it all of that stuff feels very
easily brought onto older generations of
phones if they wanted to I don't know
how much they're going to artif
officially gate that stuff but I feel
like all three of those features will be
on older generation phones not too far
away from now but the camera features
really surprised me and because the
camera Hardware wasn't massively
different from the previous generation I
wasn't expecting as big of a jump as we
are seeing but you can see it across the
board a lot of the AI tools that Google
has applied to the whole camera
experience are actually really powerful
arguably more powerful than any other
smartphone brand right now uh okay there
you have it the new pixel9 devices